---
layout: post
title: "Media Consumption Report"
date: 2020-06-1
---
I thought this post will be a weekly thing. I read, watch, listen to stuff on the internet, then pick top 5 to be published along with my short review.

Today I realized that was not what I have in mind for [web-log](/weblog) section. This section should be a living log on the web (hence web-log); harnessing web's potential to be updated, edited, and published in seconds. Not a usual blog post.

Originally a *Media Consumption Report Week 14*, now this will be *Media Consumption Report*; a curated section where I will be adding more links to article/video/podcast from the internet. This will a personal go-to references that I will revisit and edit occassionally as my interpretation also changes.

#### [→ A mind-expanding tour of the cosmos with Neil deGrasse Tyson and Robert Krulwich](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AyAK3QBnMGQ){:target="_blank"}
<small>Video · Watched 1 June 2020</small>

1 hour 22 minutes long interview between Neil deGrasse Tyson and Robert Krulwich. Basically a promotional talk show of Neil's book: *Astrophysics for People in a Hurry*. There are a lot of communication skill to learn and admire from Neil deGrasse Tyson, Science Communicator and Your Personal Astrophysicist. There are also amusing perspectives. Like when you're feeling lucky, Imagine 1000 people line up to do a coin tost. Everytime someone's got a tail, sit down. After 10 rounds there will be one person who toss a coin and get a head 10 times. This person is not lucky, it's just probability.

#### [→ Yuval Noah Harari: the world after coronavirus](https://www.ft.com/content/19d90308-6858-11ea-a3c9-1fe6fedcca75){:target="_blank"}
<small>Article · Read 4 April 2020</small>

An essay by Yuval Noah Harari, the author of Sapien and Homo Deus in his familiar style of writing. He shares his view about the current pandemic and laid out different scenarios that could happen. A test to citizenship, a choice between privacy and health, between nationality and global collaboration. <em>As usual sometimes it seems that he oversimplified things and make it look like there are only two choices.</em>

#### [→ Signaling as a Service](https://julian.digital/2020/03/28/signaling-as-a-service/){:target="_blank"}
<small>Article · Read 29 March 2020</small>

Most of our everyday actions can be traced back to some form of signaling or status seeking. For example I'm sharing what media I consumed like this might not be purely for sharing a good read, but also a signaling action to make me look smart. Julian posits that signaling can be monetized differently in a software, compared to a physical goods. Mainly the signal amplification part.

#### [→ How Crash Bandicoot Hacked The Original Playstation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=izxXGuVL21o){:target="_blank"}
<small>Video · Watched 29 March 2020</small>

The developer of the original Crash Bandicoot game (PlayStation) tell stories about how the game came to be. I find this interesting especially part where they said that they need to invent a new way to <em>exploit</em> the PlayStation's memory to be able to fit in more detail in the game.

#### [→ Dian Sastrowardoyo Talks About Going Behind the Scenes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nn6Hi7BNYLc){:target="_blank"}
<small>Video · Watched 4 April 2020</small>

Dian Sastro is back in the film industry, now as a producer. Lots of insights on how movie is using the language of empathy. For example, no matter when you watched a Swedish indie movie, Korean drama, or a blockbuster movie, you don't see nationalities there. Only humans having similar struggles with us wherever we are.